You can quickly generate bitmaps for common geometries using the commands under 'Generate Bitmap'. This is faster than drawing them by hand in a Graphics package.
If you have a really odd shaped line you wish to analyse, draw its cross section in a graphics package and save the file as a colour bitmap. atlc can read the bitmap, as long as the colours are correct - see the helf files. 
To check whether your version of atlc is working 100% okay, read in a few of the provided bitmap files, compute their properties, save them to a file and compare the checksums of those files using Tools->Generate Checksum. 
If you have a very large number of transmission lines to analyse, you may prefer to use the older version, 'atlc_old' which does not have a graphical user interface, but is command line driven. 
For some simple geometries, including a coaxial line with the inner conductor off-centre, there are exact analytical expressions for impedance, capacitance etc. In this case, it is faster and more accurate to use the Calculate->Round Coaxial Cable or similar.
altc is *not* capable of computing the loss in transmisison lines. 
altc is capable of computing the odd and even mode impedances, Zodd and Zeven of a directional coupler. From those values and the length of the coupling region, it is possible to compute the directivity, coupling factor, return loss etc of a coupler. You do however need other software, such as 'Puff' to do this. 
Did you know atlc does not need to know the exact dimensions of your transmission line - only the relative ones. It make no difference to the impedance if all dimensions are scaled by the same factor. 
atlc will support multiple processors on a Unix machine, if you have a thread library (pthreads or pth for instance) and configure with --with-mp on the command line. 
Did you know there are often 3 ways to calculate impedances using atlc? \n (1) Choose 'Calculate' from the main menu, then select any option *except* the top one (Finite Difference). Using this method will give exact (or someimes close to exact) answers, but it is limited to some special cases like coax cable.You can't handle any shape. \n(2) Chosee 'Calculate->Finite Difference' from the main menu, then select 'Generate Bitmap' and use one of the options to automatically generate a bitmap, which you subsequently analyse by choosing 'Run -> 'Run FD Simulation'. This is slower, but more general than method one. \n(3) Chosee 'Calculate->Finite Difference' then using the drawing tools to draw manually your exact geometry. Then run 'Run -> 'Run FD Simulation'. This is slower than (1), more tedious than (2), but can handle any shaps. 
Did you know it is possible to view the E-field profiles with the finite difference simulation, making it possible to see where voltage breakdown is most likely to occur. See the 'View' menu under the finite difference frame. 
Did you know atlc uses the most exact analytical formula know for many calculations? For example,
with the round inner conductor in a square outer, the usual formula of 60 log(1.08*D/a) is not used, but a more accurate numerical integration. Whenever exact answers are possible, they are used. Approximations, no matter how good, are avoided if possible. 

